Add information about PRAGMAs in programs and gates docs (#649)
rigetticomputing/pyquil: docs/source/basics.rst

Pragmas
~~~~~~~

> A ``PRAGMA`` directive tells the compiler how it should do its job. Here, we will cover the basics of two very

Reviewer: Pragmas are more general than that. See [1, sec III.M] and [2, p57, sec 4.3]. I would write something more like:

>`PRAGMA` directives gives users more control over how Quil programs are processed or simulated, but generally do _not_ change the semantics of the Quil program itself. As a general rule of thumb, deleting all `PRAGMA` directives in a Quil program should leave a valid and semantically equivalent program.
>
>In pyQuil, `PRAGMA` directives play many roles, such as controlling the behavior of gates in noisy simulations, or commanding the Quil compiler to perform actions in a certain way. Here, we will cover ...

[1] https://arxiv.org/pdf/1608.03355.pdf

[2] https://www.european-lisp-symposium.org/static/proceedings/2018.pdf

> A ``PRAGMA`` directive tells the compiler how it should do its job. Here, we will cover the basics of two very

Reviewer: see comment above

common use cases for including a ``PRAGMA`` in your program: qubit rewiring and delays. For a more comprehensive
review of what pragmas are and what the compiler supports, check out :ref:`compiler`.

.. _rewiring:

Specifying A Qubit Rewiring Scheme
----------------------------------

> Qubit rewiring is one of the powerful features of the Quil compiler. We can write a Quil program which is largely

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Qubit rewiring is one of the powerful features of the Quil compiler. We are able to write a Quil programs which are
```

> agnostic to the topology of the chip, and the compiler will smartly relabel our qubits to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
agnostic to the topology of the chip, and the compiler will intelligently relabel our qubits to
```

> give the best performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
give the better performance.
```

> give the best performance.

Author: Not yet, true. But it does improve performance in other ways, doesn't it? A line topology is not equal in performance to a star topology, maybe it chooses one over the other (maybe I just heard about this and it was not implemented) @amyfbrown @ecp-rigetti

> give the best performance.

Reviewer 2: I am not aware of any topological preference, but that would indeed be worth noting. I'm tagging @tarballs-are-good for full compiler expertise coverage.

> give the best performance.

Reviewer: Non-naive rewirings, like `PARTIAL`, will try to optimize onto the topology. Even greedy tries to do a better job than NAIVE.

> give the best performance.

Author: I will leave this as-is then. Someday we may want something more thorough

> Most commonly, we are interested in qubit rewiring because we are running on the QPU, and we want to either

Reviewer: I would reword this paragraph. Something like

>When we intend to run a program on the QPU, sometimes we write programs which use specific qubits targeting a specific device topology, perhaps to achieve a high-performance program. Other times, we write programs that are agnostic to the underlying topology, thereby making the programs more portable. Qubit rewiring accommodates both use-cases in an automatic way.

nail down the qubits we are running on, or we don't want to worry about changing the labels for qubits when we
reserve a lattice with other qubits.

Say that we built the following program.

.. code::

    from pyquil import Program
    from pyquil.gates import *

    p = Program(X(3))

We've tested this on the QVM, and we've reserved a lattice on the QPU which has qubits 4, 5, and 6, but not qubit 3.
Rather than rewrite our program for each reservation, we modify our program to tell the compiler to do this for us.

.. code::

    from pyquil.quil import Pragma

    p = Program(Pragma('INITIAL_REWIRING', ['"GREEDY"']))
    p += X(3)

Now, when we pass our program through the compiler (such as with ``QuantumComputer.compile``) we will get native Quil
with the qubit reindexed to one of 4, 5, or 6. In the case that qubit 3 is available to us, and we don't want that
pulse to be applied to any other qubit, we would instead use ``Pragma('INITIAL_REWIRING', ['"NAIVE"']]``. Detailed information

> about the available options is :ref:`here <compiler_rewirings>`.

Reviewer: Add:

>In general, we assume that the qubits you're operating on are also the ones you prefer to operate on, and so `NAIVE` rewiring is the default.

Asking for a Delay
------------------

At times, we may want to add a delay in our program. Usually this is associated with qubit characterization. Delays

> are not regular gate operations, so they're implemented with ``PRAGMA``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
are not regular gate operations, and they do not affect the abstract semantics of the Quil program, so they're implemented with a ``PRAGMA`` directive.
```

.. code::

    #  ...
    # qubit index and time in seconds must be defined and provided
    p += Pragma('DELAY', [qubit], str(time))

.. warning::
    Keep in mind, the program duration is currently capped at 15 seconds, and the length of the program is multiplied

>     by the number of shots. If you have a 1000 shot program each with a 100ms delay, you won't be able to execute it.

Author: How about:
```suggestion
    by the number of shots, so if you have a 1000 shot program each with a 100ms delay, you won't be able to execute it.
```
since the delay doesn't have to be at the end, and can't actually be after (afaik)

>     by the number of shots. If you have a 1000 shot program each with a 100ms delay, you won't be able to execute it.

Reviewer 2: I care less about making the two sentences into one compound sentence than I care about clarifying what "each" refers to in the second sentence. As written, it sounds like "each" is modifying "program" when it should be modifying "shot." 
> If you have a 1000 shot program each with a 100ms delay, you won't be able to execute it.

We mean to say that each shot has a 100ms delay at some point in the shot's execution, but that isn't clear from the word order.

>     by the number of shots. If you have a 1000 shot program each with a 100ms delay, you won't be able to execute it.

Author: ```suggestion
    by the number of shots. If you have a 1000 shot program, where each shot contains a 100ms delay, you won't be able to execute it.
```

>     by the number of shots. If you have a 1000 shot program each with a 100ms delay, you won't be able to execute it.

Author: @amyfbrown @mpharrigan  How's that?

>     by the number of shots. If you have a 1000 shot program each with a 100ms delay, you won't be able to execute it.

Reviewer 3: 👍

>     by the number of shots. If you have a 1000 shot program each with a 100ms delay, you won't be able to execute it.

Reviewer 2: @lcapelluto, 11/10

Pragmas
~~~~~~~

> ``PRAGMA`` directives gives users more control over how Quil programs are processed or simulated, but generally do not

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
``PRAGMA`` directives give users more control over how Quil programs are processed or simulated but generally do not
```

or commanding the Quil compiler to perform actions in a certain way. Here, we will cover the basics of two very
common use cases for including a ``PRAGMA`` in your program: qubit rewiring and delays. For a more comprehensive
review of what pragmas are and what the compiler supports, check out :ref:`compiler`. For more information about
``PRAGMA`` in Quil, see
`A Practical Quantum ISA <https://arxiv.org/pdf/1608.03355.pdf>`_, and
`Simulating Quantum Processor Errors <https://www.european-lisp-symposium.org/static/proceedings/2018.pdf>`_.

.. _rewiring:

Specifying A Qubit Rewiring Scheme
----------------------------------

Qubit rewiring is one of the most powerful features of the Quil compiler. We are able to write Quil programs which are
agnostic to the topology of the chip, and the compiler will intelligently relabel our qubits to
give better performance.

When we intend to run a program on the QPU, sometimes we write programs which use specific qubits targeting a specific
device topology, perhaps to achieve a high-performance program. Other times, we write programs that are agnostic to the

> underlying topology, thereby making the programs more portable. Qubit rewiring accommodates both use-cases in an

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
underlying topology, thereby making the programs more portable. Qubit rewiring accommodates both use cases in an
```

automatic way.

Consider the following program.

.. code::

    from pyquil import Program
    from pyquil.gates import *

    p = Program(X(3))

We've tested this on the QVM, and we've reserved a lattice on the QPU which has qubits 4, 5, and 6, but not qubit 3.
Rather than rewrite our program for each reservation, we modify our program to tell the compiler to do this for us.

.. code::

    from pyquil.quil import Pragma

>     p = Program(Pragma('INITIAL_REWIRING', ['"GREEDY"']))

Reviewer 3: we really need to have a better syntax for this eventually ...

Author: agree... I'll make an issue and ticket pair

    p += X(3)

> Now, when we pass our program through the compiler (such as with ``QuantumComputer.compile``) we will get native Quil

Reviewer 3: after #641 you can do `:py:func:\`QuantumComputer.compile\`` and this will xref to the relevant api docs (fyi)

Author: so cool! let's do it

Author: ```suggestion
Now, when we pass our program through the compiler (such as with :py:func:`QuantumComputer.compile`) we will get native Quil
```

with the qubit reindexed to one of 4, 5, or 6. If qubit 3 is available, and we don't want that pulse to be applied to
any other qubit, we would instead use ``Pragma('INITIAL_REWIRING', ['"NAIVE"']]``. Detailed information about the
available options is :ref:`here <compiler_rewirings>`.

.. note::

>     In general, we assume that the qubits you're operating on are also the ones you prefer to

Author: ```suggestion
    In general, we assume that the qubits you're supplying as input are also the ones which you prefer to
```

>     operate on, and so NAIVE rewiring is the default.

Author: I updated this... it shows up locally but not here yet :(
